---
title: "Hard versus soft macros"
weight:  700
---
<!-- DISCLAIMER: This file is based on the syslog-ng Open Source Edition documentation https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng-ose-guides/commit/2f4a52ee61d1ea9ad27cb4f3168b95408fddfdf2 and is used under the terms of The syslog-ng Open Source Edition Documentation License. The file has been modified by Axoflow. -->

Hard macros contain data that is directly derived from the log message, for example, the ${MONTH} macro derives its value from the timestamp. Hard macros are read-only. Soft macros (sometimes also called name-value pairs) are either built-in macros automatically generated from the log message (for example, ${HOST}), or custom user-created macros generated by using the syslog-ng pattern database or a CSV-parser. In contrast to hard macros, soft macros are writable and can be modified within {{% productparam "abbrev" %}}, for example, using rewrite rules.

Hard and soft macros are rather similar and often treated as equivalent. Macros are most commonly used in filters and templates, which does not modify the value of the macro, so both soft and hard macros can be used. However, it is not possible to change the values of hard macros in rewrite rules or via any other means.

The following macros in {{% productparam "abbrev" %}} are hard macros and cannot be modified: `BSDTAG`, `CONTEXT_ID`, `DATE`, `DAY`, `FACILITY_NUM`, `FACILITY`, `FULLDATE`, `HOUR`, `ISODATE`, `ISOWEEK`, `LEVEL_NUM`, `LEVEL`, `MIN`, `MONTH_ABBREV`, `MONTH_NAME`, `MONTH`, `MONTH_WEEK`, `PRIORITY`, `PRI`, `RCPTID`, `SDATA`, `SEC`, `SEQNUM`, `SOURCEIP`, `STAMP`, `TAG`, `TAGS`, `TZOFFSET`, `TZ`, `UNIXTIME`, `WEEK_DAY_ABBREV`, `WEEK_DAY_NAME`, `WEEK_DAY`, `WEEK`, `YEAR_DAY`, `YEAR`.

The following macros can be modified:`FULLHOST_FROM`, `FULLHOST`, `HOST_FROM`, `HOST`, `LEGACY_MSGHDR`, `MESSAGE`, `MSG`,`MSGID`, `MSGONLY`, `PID`, `PROGRAM`, `SOURCE`. Custom values created using rewrite rules or parsers can be modified as well, just like stored matches of regular expressions ($0 ... $255).

Note that you can modify the timezone of the message, and change the timezone-related macros that way. For details, see {{% xref "/docs/chapter-manipulating-messages/modifying-messages/rewrite-timezone/_index.md" %}}.
